# brew

Brew is a NodeJS class that keeps source files compiled and updated asynchronously, in memory. For examples:

* Keeping a bunch of `less` and `css` files compiled into a single chunk of css.
* Compiling front-end `coffee` and `js` into a single `js` package.
* Compiling templates from `toffee`, `eco`, or whatever into js
* Heck, any other kind of compiling you want

What brew does:

* It monitors files and directories you specify
* If any file changes, the brew's version hash changes and a compile is triggered
* It uses a `compile` function you provide on all matching files
* It joins the compiles using a `join` function you provide; this can paste all the individual compiles together and even do a group compile on the concatenation

### Installation

```
npm install -g brew
```

### Example

The following example in coffeescript monitors 2 directories (and all their subdirs) full of `.js` files 
and combines them together into a single `.js` file. The ordering of the includes matters, and in this example a certain file is singled out
to be first, even though it's also requested in one of the later directories.

```coffee-script

brew = require('brew').brew

tasty_brew = new brew {
  includes: [
      "./js/bar/1.js"
      "./js/foo/"
      "./js/bar/"
    ]
  excludes: [
    "./js/bar/bad_code.js"
    "./js/foo/bad_dir/"
  ]
  match:      /^.*\.js$/ # don't compile anything unless it ends in .js 
  compile:    (path, txt, cb) -> cb null, txt
  join:       (strs, cb)      -> cb null, strs.join "\n"
  onChange:   (vh, txt) -> console.log "the brew has changed; version hash = #{vh}"
  onReady:    (vh, txt) -> console.log "the brew is ready;    version hash = #{vh}"
}
````

Once a brew is ready (you've gotten an onReady call), you can access its compiled text and version numbers at any time:

```coffee-script
vh  = tasty_brew.getVersionHash()
txt = tasty_brew.getCompiledText() 
````

If you provide the optional `onChange` function, as shown above, you can be notified whenever the version
hash changes of all your files, and what the new compiled and joined text is.

### The parameters, explained

* `includes`: this should be an array containing directories and/or files. Order matters. If a file qualifies twice, its priority will be determined by its first mention or ancestor directory mention.
* `exclude`:  (optional) files and directories to ignore.
* `match`:    (optional) a file will only be compiled/included if its name matches this regexp.
* `compile`:  (optional) your compile function is called on every matching file. You should call back with `err, txt`; the default compile function leaves text unmolested.
* `join`:     (optional) your join function gets an array of all the compiled texts and is responsible for turning them into one new text. Note that you may wish to do final compilation here, too. For example, with a `less` compilation, you might prefer to do nothing in `compile` but just join them all together and compile the results here.
* `onReady`:  brew calls this once it has made its first pass and compiled & joined everything
* `onChange`: (optional) this function is called if a version hash changes

### What is the "version_hash" exactly?

It's just an 8 character string, representing the results of all your files compiled and joined together. If you change a file, this
hash will change. You can use it for cache-busting, versioning, whatever.


## Contributing/making changes

Brew is written in `iced-coffee-script`. If you'd like to add anything, make sure to `npm install -g iced-coffee-script`.
Do not edit any `.js` files in this project, as they're generated by running `cake build`.

### My TODO

* TODO: pipeline first pass building!
* TODO: all kinds of error handling/checking:
	- file gets added to a monitored dir
	- file gets deleted
	- file gets moved
	- permission denied
* TODO: special case handling
	- 2 different files with same names in different mon'd dirs
	- entire dir deleted
* Make run_tests.iced actually check some unit tests
